.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2022 Marcin Owsiany <porridge@debian.org>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH addtrans 1 "November 11 2022"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
addtrans \- interactively add transactions to a ledger file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B addtrans
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B addtrans
is a graphical application for quickly adding new transactions to a ledger file.
.PP
A tutorial for using this program, with screenshots, is available at
.BR /usr/share/doc/ledgerhelpers/doc/addtrans.html
.PP
The program must be supplied with locations of the ledger and price database
files to work with.
The location of each file is determined independently, using the following
mechanisms, in this order.
The first mechanism which yields a result, wins.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-file FILE
Specify path to ledger file to work with.
.TP
.B \-\-price\-db PRICEDB
Specify path to ledger price database to work with.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Turn on debugging output, may be useful for developers.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are recognized by this program:
.TP
.BR LEDGER_FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.
.TP
.BR LEDGER_PRICE_DB
Path to ledger price database to work with.
.SH FILES
The config file for
.BR ledger (1),
namely file
.BR .ledgerrc
in user's home directory is scanned looking for the following options.
.TP
.B \-\-file FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.
.TP
.B \-\-price\-db PRICEDB
Path to ledger price database to work with.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ledger (1),
.BR cleartrans\-cli (1),
.BR sellstock\-cli (1),
.BR sorttrans\-cli (1),
.BR withdraw\-cli (1).
.br
A tutorial for using this program, with screenshots, is available at
.BR /usr/share/doc/ledgerhelpers/doc/addtrans.html
