.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2022 Marcin Owsiany <porridge@debian.org>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH cleartrans\-cli 1 "November 11 2022"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cleartrans\-cli \- interactively clear transactions in a ledger file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cleartrans
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cleartrans\-cli
is a text program for quickly clearing transactions in a ledger file.
.PP
This program looks for all uncleared transactions in the ledger file,
whose effective date is not in the future.
For each such transaction, it asks whether the transaction should be cleared,
and prompts for an effective date for the transaction.
.PP
The resulting ledger is written to a new file, and atomically renamed to the original
filename. This prevents accidental loss of data.
.PP
The program must be supplied with location of the ledger file to work with.
The location of the file is determined using the following mechanisms, in this
order.
The first mechanism which yields a result, wins.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variable is recognized by this program:
.TP
.BR LEDGER_FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.
.SH FILES
The config file for
.BR ledger (1),
namely file
.BR .ledgerrc
in user's home directory is scanned looking for the following option.
.TP
.B \-\-file FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ledger (1),
.BR addtrans (1),
.BR sellstock\-cli (1),
.BR sorttrans\-cli (1),
.BR withdraw\-cli (1).
