.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2022 Marcin Owsiany <porridge@debian.org>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH sellstock\-cli 1 "November 14 2022"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
sellstock\-cli \- record FIFO stock or commodity sales
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sellstock\-cli
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sellstock\-cli
is a text program for quickly recording commodity sales in a ledger file.
.PP
The program first prompts for the account in which the commodity was stored,
the account for commissions, and the account to credit for gains and losses,
as well as the amount and name of sold commodity, its sale price, and the
commission.
.PP
Then the program invokes
.B ledger
to list the dates and prices at which each commodity was purchased, lists them,
subtracts the requested amount and shows the result.
.PP
Finally, the resulting transaction is shown, asking for a confirmation to save
it to the journal.
.PP
The program must be supplied with location of the ledger file to work with.
The location of the file is determined using the following mechanisms, in this
order.
The first mechanism which yields a result, wins.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variable is recognized by this program:
.TP
.BR LEDGER_FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.
.SH FILES
The config file for
.BR ledger (1),
namely file
.B .ledgerrc
in user's home directory is scanned looking for the following option.
.TP
.B \-\-file FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ledger (1),
.BR addtrans (1),
.BR cleartrans\-cli (1),
.BR sorttrans\-cli (1),
.BR withdraw\-cli (1).
