.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2022 Marcin Owsiany <porridge@debian.org>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH sorttrans\-cli 1 "November 14 2022"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
sorttrans\-cli \- sorts a ledger file in chronological order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sorttrans\-cli
.RI [ options ]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -y
Write back the file immediately, without showing the differences.
.TP
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-\-help
Show help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-file FILE
Specify path to ledger file to work with.
.TP
.B \-\-price\-db PRICEDB
Specify path to ledger price database to work with.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Turn on debugging output, may be useful for developers.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sorttrans\-cli
is a text program for sorting a ledger in chronological order.
.PP
The program loads the ledger file and sorts the transactions in memory.
Then, depending on the command-line options, it either writes the sorted file
back, or invokes
.B meld
with the original and sorted version shown, for interactive editing.
.PP
The program must be supplied with location of the ledger file to work with.
If not supplied using the command-line option
.BR \-\-file ,
the location of the file is determined using the following mechanisms, in this
order.
The first mechanism which yields a result, wins.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variable is recognized by this program:
.TP
.BR LEDGER_FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.
.SH FILES
The config file for
.BR ledger (1),
namely file
.B .ledgerrc
in user's home directory is scanned looking for the following option.
.TP
.B \-\-file FILE
Path to ledger file to work with.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ledger (1),
.BR meld (1),
.BR addtrans (1),
.BR cleartrans\-cli (1),
.BR sellstock\-cli (1),
.BR withdraw\-cli (1).

